-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to verify our cluster
and then node groups and then nodes all those things
in different different steps, okay?
So our first step is to verify our node group subnets
which means like
whether this respective node group is created
in public subnet or not.
So let's go ahead and then verify that.
So how we are going to verify is nothing but for the subnets
associated for our node group
if we have the internet gateway route,
which is nothing but, it is present in the public subnet.
So let's go to EC 2,
in the sense, like our management console
and then go to Elastic Kubernetes service.
So we can see the cluster with the EKS demo got created.
Inside that, if we go to compute tab,
we can find our node group, right?
So EKS demo 1 NG public 1.
So it has desired sizes two nodes, okay?
So let's open that and if we see here,
it has the subnet here, okay?
So we'll click on any one of the subnet,
it'll open our VPC subnet section here
and inside that we are going to verify.
We are going to go to respective route tables
and then verify, okay?
So here is the route table, right?
In subnets, in the route table tab,
you can see that we have the internet route enabled
with the internet gateway, which confirms that
our respective node group is created in the public subnets.
So that is our first step. we have verified.
So now verify cluster node groups
in EKS management console.
That one also we have verified.
So we went here
and then we have seen our cluster configuration here.
We can see the API server endpoint here
for our respective cluster,
which is nothing but Kube-apiserver endpoint.
And this is our open edit connect provider URL.
So, and in addition to that,
in compute, we have seen the node groups
and then inside node groups we have seen the subnet
and all those stuff.
And it also created a auto-scaling group for this.
And why?
Because we have enabled the ASG access
which is nothing
but auto-scaling group access and all those stuff.
Automatically, it'll create anywhere with eksctl.
We really don't need to worry about those things.
So let me close it here.
This is the auto-scaling group it has created.
So using the cluster auto-scaler concepts,
based on the resources we are going to use,
we can increase or decrease these things.
So we'll see at that respective time.
So let's close these things and then go back
and we can see the networking information
for our cluster and then logging information,
by default, it is disabled.
If you want, we can even enable it.
We can add this eksctl manager cluster,
always it is recommended to use eksctl 2.
Enable logging, disabled, logging,
whatever the modifications we want to do.
Instead of this management console,
if you do it via eksctl, that is a good option for us, okay?
And any updates currently it is using latest,
we really don't have any latest updates here.
So that's about on a high level
for verifying the cluster node group and then cluster.
And now to list the clusters,
we have already seen eksctl get cluster or get clusters.
So if you want to verify that node group,
means like under this cluster, you can copy
and then provide that cluster name here
and then you get the node groups present inside this, okay?
Get node group and --cluster.
So I'll correct that.
So this should be like this, okay?
And I'll correct that command. I've corrected it.
So now list nodes you have already seen
that eksctl get nodes hyphen or wide.
So you can see this.
And another thing is eksctl config view minify, okay?
So to see our config context, okay?
So our respective to EKS demo 1's config context.
We can see here the current context is
Kalan Adered, EKS demo 1, US east 1, eksctl.io.
So this is the current context.
So to see the current context of your Kube CTL,
you can use this command.
So the next thing is worker nodes
IAM role and list of policies.
So if you remember in eksctl, right?
In eksctl here, node group --health,
you know that you have added all these add-on flags, right?
So which is nothing but we are going to provide respective
IAM policies for our worker node, IAM role.
So let's see that now.
So let's go to EC2.
These are core fundamentals
and then it might take close to 30, 40 or 45 minutes
to create your cluster.
But it's very important to know what is what
before going and then deploying the workloads.
So that's the reason we are taking a little bit
of time instead of just executing two commands
our cluster might have created
but we need to understand deeper.
So if you see it here in our EC2 instances,
two instances got created,
which are nothing but worker nodes.
And inside that,
if we go here we should find the IAM role, right?
So you can see that IAM role is eksctl
and then cluster name -node group.
Whatever you see with node group it is nothing but the node
group related node instance role.
So if I click on that,
so it'll open the respective IAM console
and then that respective role.
So let's wait for it.
Okay, so now if you see here, so by default,
worker node policy container registry read only.
If you see here, you have additional stuff here, okay?
So policy for ALB ingress,
policy for app mesh, policy for auto-scaling,
policy for DNS. which is nothing but external DNS.
And you have also policy for container registry read only.
And then container registry power user
which is nothing but ECR full access,
Elastic Container Registry full access.
So all these policies got added for our worker node IAM,
means like worker nodes IAM role.
So why this is required?
This is nothing but whatever the ports,
Kubernetes ports you are going to run
in your cluster worker nodes, they need to access it.
They need to access these resources,
which is nothing but if we want to access
the elastic container registry to download
the container image.
So then, it needs access
and then you have two ways to do it.
So one is create a Kubernetes service account
and then create a IAM role and then associate them together
and then provide that information
for your respective port,
means like for your respective container,
so that it can pick up and then use that.
So other way is like directly give it
in your respective worker node IAM roles.
So that these worker node, whatever the parts running
on this worker node will have access to these resources.
So the parts running on this worker nodes will have access
to these resources to perform the action for that purpose.
We can do this way and we are also going to
do the other ways like create a IAM role,
create a policy and then create a Kubernetes service account
and then associate everything together.
All those things, we are going to do it separately
for ALB ingress controller and for external DNS
and for multiple things we are going to anyway do it.
So let's go there.
And then we have seen the IAM role,
also see the security group associated
to worker nodes.
So let's go here.
And before going to security groups,
first we'll see the cloud formation stack
and then we'll go back to security groups, okay?
So we'll go to cloud formation, right?
So let me click on this.
And why we are seeing here is like what is happening?
I just executed that command and then what happened?
We need to know, right?
So now if you see it here,
you can see these two are the things
which has been created today.
So today's 14-6-2020.
And then as part of this
what it created is eksctl, EKS demo 1 cluster.
So whenever you have executed the create cluster command,
it has created the cluster and the associated events
you can see here what all it has created, right?
So it'll be creating lots of stuff.
It'll create the NAT gateway, it'll create cloud tables,
and lots of stuff it'll create underlying, okay?
And what are the outputs of that
and all these things, you can see.
So this is your endpoint.
Endpoint is nothing but your Kube API server endpoint.
So this cloud formation stack, whenever you say
eksctl create cluster, automatically it'll post the content
to the cloud formation API.
And using that it creates,
means like using cloud formation only, it has created.
So now you also need to see one more thing here,
important thing is, NAT gateway.
So why?
Because if you deploy your worker nodes
means like your workloads in the private subnet
and your node group is in private subnet,
it needs access to the EKS cluster,
which is nothing but control plane.
In addition to that, your parts also need to have access to
docker hub or anything, right?
So for that purposes
NAT gateway outbound is going to be helpful.
So by default it'll create a single NAT gateway
and you have options to create higher availability
NAT gateway or even disable the NAT gateway, right?
So these are important things which we need to know.
So on a high level, I'm trying to explain.
And whenever we go to those respective sections,
we'll get in detail.
So the next section is security groups, right?
So before going to security groups,
we'll also complete the worker node
using key pair Kube demo, right?
So let's go to our EC2, right?
And see what is the key pair associated to it.
So ideally it should have Kube demo, right?
So let's go here, come down.
See the key pair name it is associated is Kube demo.
So let me go to my SSH
and take the public IP of any of these nodes.
I have took one, okay?
And then I will say ssh -i
and I have my Kube demo perm file here.
And then I'm going to say EC2 user Adered
and it should allow us to log in, right?
Right. I have logged into the EC 2 user
with 192.168.42.229 is my private IP, right?
And then I can even see my disc space, okay?
On the server, right?
So it has mounted 20 GB, whatever we said, right?
So 20 GB, it has mounted for us, okay?
So this is about the login to our respective worker nodes.
So I'll add this command in the dock.
Now let's go back to the security group step, okay?
So any security group which has the remote in between it,
that is nothing but the security group related
to inbound access to our worker nodes, okay?
So in this, if you see here you have
the cluster security group
and you see something called remote access, okay?
So this is the security group we are interested in, right?
So let me open that security group here.
And in the inbound rules, it is open only
to 22 to the internet.
So that's the reason, just know whatever we have done
the terminal accesses worker, ssh -i, right?
So now what we are going to do is
we are going to add one more rule here.
So that is nothing but all traffic we are going to allow
from anywhere.
So for our testing initial sections, we are going to
use the node port service for the workloads
we are going to deploy.
So for those workloads,
if you're going to use node port service,
then node port generates different different dynamic IPs,
our dynamic ports.
So our cluster public IP
means like our worker nodes public IP:
and the dynamic port, whatever it generates.
So using that, we should be able to access our applications.
So for that purpose, this rule is required.
So I'm adding this rule here, okay?
So which means like I'm saying that adding
an additional rule
all traffic from anywhere is allowed for my worker nodes.
That's the step six, okay?
So this completes the creation of EKS cluster
and then associating EKS cluster to IAM OIDC provider
and creating the node groups
and verifying everything step-by-step.
So in our next lecture, we'll focus on other section.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.